# About Me and Digital Humanities Work

## This is a brief statement about myself and summary of projects I have been working on!

Hello. My name is Daniel Cho, and I’m a junior at Penn majoring in Biology. I am from Seoul, South Korea, and I have lived in Singapore, Hawaii, and currently in Philadelphia. I am interested in the study of modern history, political studies, international relations aside from my STEM-heavy major studies. I took ENGL 1650: Introduction to Digital Humanities because I have taken several history and social studies classes at Penn, but the field of digital humanities seemed very new and intriguing to me. Looking back at some projects I have been involved in, learning about OCR was a very special experience when analyzing the metadata in an online database. I learned that digital humanists are the ones that transform an original document, perhaps decades old, into a piece of article that is very accessible and easy to comprehend. Visiting the Kislak Center was also very helpful, because seeing firsthand how these people work opened my eyes to other projects and opportunities ahead. The work on the Printings in Prison website took the most time and effort, because solidifying the theme, content, and images took a long time, and learning how to put them together into a Markdown file was very challenging for me. The Python for Humanists workshop at Van Pelt really resonated with me here because coding techniques in the field of humanities help us visualize documents and help our lives as digital humanists much easier. The collaborative project in the EC made me think back at how the digital humanists at Kislak worked together to produce an online database, and people at the Education Commons really helped us out by giving us instructions on how to 3D print and make our project more interactive to a general audience. Overall, my first endeavor in exploring what digital humanities is has been a great success, and I look forward to learning more in the near future!

December 15, 2024
By Daniel HB Cho
