# Looking Forward

### I will be discussing what I am planning on learning in the near future, especially in the field of digital humanities

In the near future, I wish to take the following three steps in order to move forward in the field of digital humanities: take online courses on website design/relevant coding languages/Photoshop, visit the Education Commons to utilize the tools they offer, and visit the Schoenberg Institute to learn more about digitizing precious historical manuscripts. Some online courses I would like to take are from free Coursera classes, which offer UI/UX design and are supported by Meta. I believe that an attractive and concise website design appeals to a wide range of audience just as much as the content itself. I would also like to expand my horizons on coding experience, especially in advanced languages like Python, Java, or C, because coding is related to transforming a pile of manuscripts into a giant database, as well as enabling people to sort based on their academic interests. I would also like to revisit the Education Commons to learn more about 3D printing and textiles. I would like to work on the texture and textiles because they appealed to me the most as how they would transform the audience’s experience, but I was unfortunately not assigned to the textiles group. Lastly, I would like to visit the Schoenberg Institute to learn about old manuscripts and how to preserve them. The visit to SCETI and Kislak Center was remarkable in the sense that I got to see firsthand the process of preserving a historic document/memoir/account into a widely available database. I loved how the cameras worked along with various Photo Editing techniques. The class has been full of eye opening experiences, along with cherished memories visiting special exhibitions, attending workshops and collaborating with classmates on a meaningful project. I am excited to move forward in my digital humanities journey!
