# Reflection on My EC Project: ESP Baseball League 1913

##### For our group’s collaborative project, themed ESP Baseball League: 1913 Edition, I was outreach specialist. According to the role description, an outreach specialist is responsible for organizing the presentation of the group’s project to the rest of the class, including making slides or materials needed to efficiently communicate our idea with the rest of the class. When our group had the first meeting outside of class on November 19, we strived to solidify our theme, design, and content. We unanimously voted that placing NFC stickers on a 3D printed object that leads the audience to a set of well-written articles would be the best idea, since both the interactivity teams were given two techniques to work on by Tex: NFC tags or makey-makey. During our meeting, we decided upon NFCs placed in a 3D printed baseball field, with each NFC tag linked to a baseball story. The design of the baseball field was supposed to resemble the actual baseball field within the ESP in the early 1900s. Vasu was able to finish the 3D design on his laptop based on a brief sketch we made on the whiteboard. When picking the stories to go on individual bases (4 stories total), I pitched in the idea of highlighting the ESP League. Similar to how ESPN or other sports websites show the progression of an annual sports season, I thought it would be cool if we could include scoreboards, highlights of a close game, team dynamics, and key players. My groupmates agreed that my idea would be cool, and we altogether used search tools on The Umpire spreadsheet to pinpoint stories during the 1913 season (which showed up from lines 50 to 600). The first story was the opening of the season in April 1913 and the last story was the closing of the season and the championship in October 1913. We were able to find two more stories of close games for the second and third bases. During one hour of the first meeting, we were able to complete most of the work, including brainstorming and designing. We were very efficient and quick on deciding our next steps, which were Vasu 3D printing with the help of Tex, Sophie writing the stories based on The Umpire, and me in charge of completing the slideshow for the classwide presentation. By the following week’s work day in the Education Commons, we were finished with writing and reviewing the articles, as well as the slides to present in class. The articles resembled the style of the Printing in Prisons website since this would enable the audience to be more attached to our work. The article files were saved as PDFs in a Google Drive and were linked to four different NFC tags. NFC tags were attached to the finished 3D model of our baseball field, which included the final edit of putting “ESP League 1913” so that the audience would know right away that these articles are about the 1913 league. My role during the work session was to finish up the slides including our goals, content, and some photos, and I am really glad that all of us were able to finish everything on time and ready to roll after the break. Overall, my role within the group was to actively pitch in ideas and specific content for the design and articles, including going over The Umpire to provide Sophie with places to begin with, as well as producing presentation slides and presenting our project to the class. The group dynamic was close to perfect, as everyone adhered to their roles and were very timely and efficient in getting the work done. I want to take my hats off to Vasu and Sophie for almost single-handedly creating the articles and 3D model. They went above and beyond the roles they were assigned to and the overall outcome was very satisfactory. I would personally not change anything about the design or how our group functioned together, because I am more than happy that we ended up successfully.

##### The overall goal of the project was to curate the articles within The Umpire to make 1913 ESP League stories more accessible to the audience and to discuss the values of baseball for the incarcerated people. We also strived to make the physical model of the baseball field as a means of enabling the audience to visualize the actual ESP baseball field, with its narrow field and guarded walls surrounding it, and understand how the daily lives looked like for ordinary sports-loving people in ESP. Underscoring the humanity of the incarcerated players was also a main goal of our project, as the majority of stories in The Umpire discuss ordinary people gathered in religious services, group activities, etc. We made our article layout similar to an ESPN game summary so that the audience would feel more connected to the lives of the ESP baseball players and fans.

##### There were many successes to our project, including not having any unnecessary disputes/fights over the course of the assignment, everyone completing their work seamlessly in a timely manner, and producing something tangible that contains data from The Umpire that are worthy of sharing. In terms of a failure, I would say that one failure is not sharing everyone’s ideas regarding the project’s theme. When I proposed my idea, everyone agreed that it was a great idea and we all went on with it, but I think it would have been worthy to listen to individual opinions for about 30-40 minutes and vote for the optimal solution before we proceeded. One more thing to improve on would be that we could have met one more time before our in-class presentation to go over the overall flow and details such as when/how we will do a demo on our 3D model. Due to the time constraints, with the Thanksgiving break a week prior, it was a little difficult for us to find a perfect time to practice and go over one last time.
